~~ a ere ai Resale tee be ~ ate aa meget a ce tle re ke fawiawiidice caus he ‘eacbahe akan: sci tenn hated Iai jn tiackenis the sales ore cicada ens Cael yk oe. sedouae dein: Se * pe Je : we! seg OL Mae Bt Foye He AUN ea oe ‘ = go “ H R . we le 2 Oy '
*“ audience,* tho heve not the power to approve however they may resent such an
‘outrage on their profession and prinoiples. Curiosity prompted me to hear him
onée from his pulpit,. but ‘I know not whioh feeling was most prominent = re=
pisentment at the insult offered my friends and neighbours of the Established
 ChoréhSin’ imposing such an“aninal.on ‘them, or indignation at the law that com-
' pole ug ‘dissenters to” contribute nearly to the entire support, and a degree of
{ sorrey at the pantomimie and:farpiel “exhibition before mo. Margaret and the
*Qirate took tea with, us ‘and you would have enjoyed the scene between Sibby and —
* his little reverence. She-argued with him on various literary subjects and
‘teased and laughed at him,“ but the objeot was too insignificant to triumph. overe
“\ Thursday Hight --<=."I-arose this morning tired, jaded and dispirited. The
i‘ soene that cceur'd last night. can never be obliterated from ny memorye Would
Sfor:the sake of hucenity end ‘the honor of our Country it had never taken places
"The night was unusually dark, wet end dismal, and for this season of the year,
t” stormy. About tno ofolock we were swoke by a loud knocking at the street door,
2 Aunt instantly arose, looked out’ of 'a front window, when a female on horse= -
back drenched by the rain and’ apparently shivering with the cold, called out
in xe Munster accent "Oh Kitty dear, for the love of God, open the door and
“" give me shelter." Our dear Aunt's heart is ever open to the ory of the affliot-
: ed and her door. to‘the supplications of the distressed, and without knowing
/ the name of ‘the petitioner, she'did not hesitate a moment, flew down the
_ stairs, und received in her arms the once admired Honorable Kitty Fleming,
- Dut. now the unfortunate, nearly broken hearted and perseouted Widow O'Heelle
‘This was no time‘for explanation ~' our little household being raised from
”. their slumbers were all in requisition. The jadéd horse was sent to the Inn
stables, and the tea kettle, that’ nover failing ‘panacea, was soon bubbling its
- satisfaction over the blaze of a oheerful fire. Mre. O'Heall after getting a
- ghange of warm olothing and comfortable, refreshment seemed for the moment to
* forget the circumstances of cruelty and oppression, which caused her to be
’ turned from her house and humble ‘settlement, the particulars of which were
partly told us, but Aunt entreated her to retire to rest and state the reo
mainder in the morning. Poor Sibby was much affected and lamented her czip-
' pled state, which prevented her joining us in our office of hospitality and
humanity. The Flemings’ were said to be amongst the early Saxone: Invaders of
this raturally lovely Islend along with the famous warrior Strongbow. They
reaped a plentiful harvest of plunder from the poor natives, but in process
of time they with their aonfederated brethren Piots. Anoient Britons etoes
. becane amalgeted with the people of the land. and had adopted many of their
manners and customs, and probaly imbibed all the patriotic feelings, which
attach « man to the soil of his birth, and the dear recollections of the
lekes, the rivers, or, if you will, of the very turf-bogs and the thousand
nameless "nothings" of their early life. With the title of Baron of Slane
the Flemings inherited large possessions and lands and lived more in the
style of petty Lonearcha than of subjeots amongst their devoted tenantry
tnd followers. After the shameful breach of the Treaty of Limerick, Lord —
Slene.cné such other Catholio Noblemen, who remained in the country, were
obliged to submit to degrading terms imposed on them by their unfeeling
Pe TR naman menue wha ewan vefnrad them tha rishta of consofence