282
APPENDIX-1795.
APPENDIX-1795.
283
think of settling, and, if any of my connections can be of use, I
will write to them warmly.- beg you will give my best re+
My DEAR FRIEND I have just this instant heard from Simon
gards to Mrs. Tone, and believe me, dear Tone, with great
M'Guire that you leave town to-night. I can scarcely believe
truth, your friend,
that you would entirely break yourself away from this country,
W. PLUNKET.
and from me, amongst the rest, without calling on me, or even
May 29th, 1795.
writing a line. You know, and I trust will always be convinc-
ed, that my friendship and affectionate regard for you is most
undiminished. It is not of that nature to shake by adversity,
My DEAR TONE Though you have not written to me, I hear,
which God knows how soon it may be my lot to undergo.
from an accidental quarter, of your having some idea of a trip
Wherever you are, you shall always command a steady friend
across the Atlantic. I have made some American acquaintance
in this country, as long as I reside here. Write to me, at least,
here, who are both opulent and respectable. One of whom, Dr.
when you reach your destination, and as often as may suit your
Edwards, a person of immense landed property, is about making
convenience. Perhaps your letters may be useful to me for re-
an Irish tour. I have, therefore, given him a letter to you,
gulating my future settlement in life.-God bless you. Give
which he will deliver in Dublin. He is a great farmer, and I
my most affectionate compliments to Mrs. Tone, and believe
have gathered from him that he is very desirous to carry away
me, very sincerely, your's,
from Ireland, a cargo of Irish families, farmers as well as man-
T.A. EMMET.
ufacturers : and, from my conversation with him, he appears
honest, intelligent, and spirited. That his acquaintance, and,
possibly, a connection with him, may be serviceable to you, was
Extracts of Letters to and from America.
the very first idea which occupied my mind, and I therefore im-
DEAR TONE: Our internal politics are not much altered since
mediately offered him, as favors conferred upon him, letters to
you left this. Grattan and his party have been engaging the
my friends in Dublin, Mr. Sweetman and Counsellor Tone
Catholics to address his Majesty, jointly with their fellow-
you will then have an opportunity of sounding him, nearly or
citizens, for final emancipation. This they have refused, unless
more remotely respecting yourself, from these documents I write
reform be added to it, and that the party of Grattanites should
you. He is a great admirer of the North of Ireland. He was,
take a lead in the business. Reform does not accord with these
by his own confession, a great Aristocrat in America, and
gentlemen's views, and they are not yet able to swallow such a
changed principles from conviction. He is a doctor of laws and
pill, but still they continue the intercourse, and I am inclined
physic, and, I believe, is a Judge in Philadelphia. He loves the
to think they would concede. The last meeting was on Friday,
French, and detests the combination against them. He is very
and the next will be on Tuesday. The result of it shall be com-
gentle and frank in his manners, and grateful for every atten-
municated to you the first opportunity. At present I think all
tion. With affectionate regard to Russell, I remain your faith-
meetings of the kind are futile, I mean aggregate meetings for
ful friend,
addresses and declarations, and that it would be much wiser for
WM. TODD JONES.
us calmly to await the issue of another campaign or two.
R. S.
P. S. I have spent another day with my American compa-
BELFAST, 12th July, 1795.
nions and learn that Edwards is a Judge of the Common Pleas
at Philadelphia, is possessed of large tracts of territory, and
requires settlers. I have puffed you off to him at no very merci-
DEAR TONE The newspapers will inform you of the French
ful rate of flattery; so pray act up to my picture.-God
affairs, and you will, I doubt not, have felt the same hopes and
Love to Russell.
fears that we did respecting peace. We are now, however, in