19.
audience, who have not the power to approve however they may resent such an
outrage on their profession and principles. Curiosity prompted me to hear him
once from his pulpit, but I know not which feeling was most prominent - re-
sentment at the insult offered my friends and neighbours of the Established
Church in imposing such an animal on them, or indignation at the law that com-
pels us dissenters to contribute nearly to the entire support, and a degree of
sorrey at the pantomimie and faroial exhibition before me. Margaret and the
Curato took tea with us and you would have enjoyed the scene between Sibby and
his little reverence. She argued with'him on various literary subjects and
teased and laughed at him. but the object was too insignificant to triumph over.
Thursday Night
I arose this morning tired, jaded and dispirited. The
soene that occur'd last night can never be obliterated from my memory. Would
for the sake of humanity and the honor of our Country it had never taken place.
The night was unusually dark, wet and dismal, and for this season of the year,
stormy. About two o'olook we were awake by a loud knooking at the street door,
Aunt instantly arose, looked out of'a front window, when a female on horse-
back drenched by the rain and apparently shivering with the cold, called out
in a Kunster accent "Oh Kitty dear, for the love of God, open the door and
give me shelter." Our dear Aunt's heart is ever open to the ory of the afflict-
ed and her door to the supplications of the distressed, and without knowing
the name of the petitioner, she did not hesitate a moment, flew down the
stairs, and received in her arms the once admired Honorable Kitty Fleming,
but. now the unfortunate, nearly broken hearted and persecuted Widow O'Heall.
This was no time for explanation - our little household being raised from
their slumbers were all in requisition. The jaded horse was sent to the Inn
stables, and the toa kettle, that never failing panacea, was soon bubbling its
satisfaction over the blaze of a cheerful fire. Mrs. O'Heall after getting &
change of warm clothing and comfortable refreshment seemed for the moment to
forget the circumstances of cruelty and oppression, which caused her to be
turned from her house and humble settlement, the particulars of which were
partly told us, but Aunt entreated her to retire to rest and state the re-
mainder in the morning. Poor Sibby was much affected and lamented her crip-
plod state, which prevented her joining us in our office of hospitality and
humanity. The Flemings were said to be amongst the early Saxona Invadera of
this naturally lovely Island along with the famous warrior Strongbow. They
reaped a plentiful harvest of plunder from the poor natives, but in process
of time they with their confederated brethron Piots. Anoient Britons etc
became analgated with the people of the land and had adopted many of their
manners and customs, and probaly imbibed all the patriotic feelings, which
attach a man to the soil of his birth, and the dear recollections of the
lakes, the rivers, or, if you will, of the very turf-bogs and the thousand
nameless "nothings" of their early life. with the title of Baron of Slane
the Flemings inherited large possessions and lands and lived more in the
style of potty Konaroha than of subjects amongst their devoted tenantry
and followers. After the shameful breach of the Treaty of Limerick, Lord
Slane and such other Catholio Noblemen, who remained in the country, were
obliged to submit to degrading terms imposed on them by their unfeeling
tha
rights
of
conscience