282 APPENDIX-£1795._ |
think of settling, and, if any of my connections can be of use}
“will write to them -warmly.—I beg you will give my best re
gards to Mrs. Tone, and belicve me, dear Tone, with grea’
truth, your friend, ts
meh W. PLUNKET
May 29th, 1795.

~My Dear Tone : Though you have not written to me, I heais
from an accidental quarter, of your having some idea of a tri
across the Atlantic. I have made some American acquaintanc
here, who are both opulent and respectable. One of whom, Dr
Edwards, a person of immense landed property, is about makin g
an Irish tour. I have, therefore, given him a letter to. you
which he will deliver in Dublin. He is a great farmer, and ]



have gathered from him that he is very desirous to carry away”
from Ireland, a cargo of Irish families, farmers as well as man<.
ufacturers ; and, from my conversation with him, he appears
honest, intelligent, and spirited. That his acquaintance, and, :





-possibly, a connection with him, may be serviceable to you, was
the very first idea which occupied my mind, and I therefore im-
mediately offered him, as favors conferred upon him, letters to
my friends in Dublin, Mr. Sweetman and Counsellor Tone;
you will then have an opportunity of sounding him, nearly or’:
more remotely respecting yourself, from these documents I write .
you. He is a great admirer of the North of Ireland. He was, |
by his own confession, a great Aristocrat in America, and .
changed principles from conviction. He is a doctor of laws and.
physic, and, I believe, is a Judge in Philadelphia. He loves the ©
French, and detests the combination against them. He is very =
gentle and frank in his manners, and grateful for every atten.
tion, With affectionate regard to Russell, I remain your faith-
ful friend, vs

.. P. S. I have spent another day with my American compa-
nions and learn that Edwards is a Judge of the Common Pleas
at Philadelphia, is possessed of large tracts of territory, and
requires settlers. I have puffed you off to him at no very merci-
ful rate of flattery ; so pray act up tomy picture.—God bless you.
Love to Russell.
























‘WM. TODD JONES. ~ :
.w 2
APPENDIX—1795: °
“My Dean Frrenp : I have just this instant heard from Simon,
*Guire that you leave town to-night. - I can scarcely believe:
“that you would entirely break yourself away from this countryy.
‘and ‘from me, amongst the rest, without calling on me, or even. .
“writing aline. You know, and I trust will always be convine-
éd;;that my friendship and affectionate regard-for you is most —
‘undiminished. It is not of that nature to shake by adversity,.
hich God knows how soon it may be my lot to undergo.
Wherever you are, you shall always command a steady. friend
n this country, as long as I reside here. Write tome, at least,
“when you reach your destination, and as often as may suit your -
convenience. Perhaps your letters may: be useful to me for re-
“gulating my future. settlement in life-—God bless you. Give’
my most affectionate compliments to Mrs, Tone, and believe
me, very sincerely, your’s, .














T./A, EMMET.

: Extracts of Letters toand from America. —
’ Dear Tone: Our internal politics are not much altered since .
you left this, Grattan and his party have been engaging the”.
‘Catholics to address his Majesty, jointly with their fellow-
citizens, for final emancipation. This they have refused, unless
- peform be added to it, and that the party of Grattanites should
take a lead in the business. Reform does not accord with these —
 gentlemen’s views, and they are not yet able to swallow such a
pill, but still they continue the intercourse, and I am inclined
to think they would concede. The last meeting was on Friday,
‘and the next will be on Tuesday. The result of it shall be com-
municated to you the first opportunity. At present I think all
meetings of the kind are futile, I mean aggregate meetings for
addresses and declarations, and that it would be much wiser for
us calmly to await the issue of another campaign or two. :
~ R. 8.

























BEwFast, 12th July, 1795.





) DzEaR TonE: The newspapers will inform you of the French
_affairs, and you will, I doubt not, have felt the same hopes and
fears that we did respecting peace. We are now, however, in