APPENDIX—1795.
282.
think of settling, and, if any of my connections can be of use, I
will write to them warmly.—I beg you will give my best re¬
gards to Mrs. Tone, and belicve me, dear Tone, with great
truth, your friend,
W. PLUNKET.
May 29th, 1795.
MYDEarToNe: Though you have not written to me, I hear,
from an accidental quarter, of your having some idea of a trip
across the Atlantic. I have made some American acquaintance
here, who are both opulent and respectable. One of whom, Dr.
Edwards, a person of immense landed property, is about making
an Irish tour. I have, therefore, given him a letter to you,
which he will deliver in Dublin. He is a great farmer, and I
have gathered from him that he is very desirous to carry away
from Ireland, a cargo of Irish families, farmers as well as man¬
ufacturers ; and, from my conversation with him, he appears
honest, intelligent, and spirited. That his acquaintance, and,
possibly, a connection with him, may be serviceable to you, was
the very first idea which occupied my mind, and I therefore im¬
mediately offered him, as favors conferred upon him, letters to
my friends in Dublin, Mr. Sweetman and Counsellor Tone;
you will then have an opportunity of sounding him, nearly or
more remotely respecting yourself, from these documents I write
you. He is a great admirer of the North of Ireland. He was,
by his own confession, a great Aristocrat in America, and
changed principles from conviction. He is a doctor of laws and
physic, and, I believe, is a Judge in Philadelphia. He loves the
French, and detests the combination against them. He is very
gentle and frank in his manners, and grateful for every atten¬
tion. With affectionate regard to Russell, I remain your faith¬
ful friend,
WM. TODD JONES.
P. S. I have spent another day with my American compa-
nions and learn that Edwards is a Judge of the Common Pleas
at Philadelphia, is possessed of large tracts of territory, and
requires settlers. I have puffed you off to him at no very merci¬
ful rate of flattery; so pray act up to my picture.—God bless you.
Love to Russell.
288
APPENDIX—1793.
Mr DEAE FRIEND: I have just this instant heard from Simon
M'Guire that you leave town to-night. I can scarcely believe
that you would entirely break yourself away from this country,
and from me, amongst the rest, without calling on me, or even
writing a line. You know, and I trust will always be convinc-
ed, that my friendship and affectionate regard for you is most
undiminished. It is not of that nature to shake by adversity,
which God knows how soon it may be my lot to undergo.
Wherever you are, you shall always command a steady friend
in this country, as long as I reside here. Write to me, at least,
when you reach your destination, and as often as may suit your
convenience. Perhaps your letters may be useful to me for re¬
gulating my future settlement in life.—God bless you. Give
my most affectionate compliments to Mrs. Tone, and believe
me, very sincerely, your's,
T. A. EMMET.
Extracts of Letters to and from America.
DEAR TONE : Our internal politics are not much altered since
you left this. Grattan and his party have been engaging the
Catholics to address his Majesty, jointly with their fellow-
citizens, for final emancipation. This they have refused, unless
reform be added to it, and that the party of Grattanites should
take a lead in the business. Reform does not accord with these
gentlemen’s views, and they are not yet able to swallow such a
pill, but still they continue the intercourse, and I am inclined
to think they would concede. The last meeting was on Friday,
and the next will be on Tuesday. The result of it shall be com¬
municated to you the first opportunity. At present I think all
meetings of the kind are futile, I mean aggregate meetings for
addresses and declarations, and that it would be much wiser for
us calmly to await the issue of another campaign or two.
R. S.
BELFAsT, 12th July, 1795.
DEAR TONE: The newspapers will inform you of the French
affairs, and you will, I doubt not, have felt the same hopes and
fears that we did respecting peace. We are now, however, in