23rd March
1796
Philadelphia
Philadelphia 23 March 1796
D.1140/6
Silas E. Wier to James Robinson, Merchant, Stewartstowm
My dear James I have now the pleasure of informing you that a few days
ago Mr. Hu/gh/ Whites draft on Mathew and Isaac Duncan was accepted and paid,
shall remit to Mr. White as soon as I can get a bill purchas'd which will
be very shortly; my brother John's letter of the 21 November came safe to
hand, and am glad to hear that you are all well; may a Gracious God
continue his mercies in this respect and make us worthy of them; I hope my
mother has got rid of the pains she was troubled with during the summer;
I am sorry my first letters did not give so much satisfaction as was expected,
but when you'l consider my unfix'd (?) situation at the time they were wrote,
and of course unsettled state of mind, there may be cause of wonder that they
gave so much; my brother mentioned his intention of sending out some
sufine (?) cloths if I thought they would suit this market, but they would by
no means recompense him for his trouble and expense; Mr. George Campbell's
family and Mrs. Alexander's are all well; the little boy that came over to
Mr. C/ampbell/ is well and they are remarkable fond of him; he is getting
so lusty that you would scarcely know him; your cousin Mr. John Campbell
arrived at Boston in January last and sail'd in the course of about 10 days
for the East Indies; he had wrote to his uncle that he intended coming here,
and Sally Brobston was in great hopes of seeing her long lost brother, but
alas was greatly disappointed on finding he had sail'd for a distant country;
I'm inform'd he has acquir'd a handsome fortune within this very few years.
I remain with Bingham at No. 32 North Second Street; tis a healthy part of
the City; my employment and hours are nearly the same as in our own shop,
only on a more extensive scale.
The prevalance of a strong westerly wind has kept the vessels bound
out from Europe very long on the way - tis fifteen weeks since the date of
our last accounts from England to any part of the United States - a period
much longer than has been observed to take place since the commencement of
the present war; we have received intelligence of the arrival at Barbados
of the British Squadron and Transports; they'l be apt to have hot work this
summer in the Islands. Robert Brobston and his wife are very well, but he
/has