Lalor Family Letters, N.Y., Wisc. to Queens Co., 1843--1931 (cont'd). 3
Kierans Whalen, Staten Island, New York, to Richard Lawler /Lalor/,
Tinakill, Abbeyleix, Queens County, December 4, 1860.
1866?
2. "Mr. Lawler I received your Welcom letter on the 3rd day of
December Which gave me grate pleasure to hear that you and family
and Brother is Well and I hope Brothers family is in good Health
Mr. Lawler I feel under a grate many obligations to you for beeing
So kind as to rite to me and I feel more hapy to hear that you
are Well Mr Richard I Shall trie to Help my Brother for you
Beeing So Kind as to rite to me knowing your good friendship to me
and I feel Hapy to return an Answer -- and I Depend on you to See
to him I Shall not forget your friendship
Now Mr. Richard I Shall Send My Brother /2/- Pounds to asist Him
a long for this time this Contry at present is not Seteled
Every thin is Very High and mony is not So plenty I Work for a
gentel man on Staten Island and has Study Work Since I got maried
I Have Wife and two Children and lives Hapy Mr Richard I Should
like to know what family you Have M Richard I Shall Send you a
paper Now and at your answer to this leter I Shall Send you a paper
Every Month
Nomore from your affectionate friend
Kerans /Renans?/ Whalen
Direct your letter to Kerans Whalen Staten Island
North Shor Post office factory Vill State of
New york America"
Maria O'Brien, Madison, Wisconsin, to her cousin, Richard Lalor,
Tinakill, Abbeyleix, Queens Co., May 18, 1861.
3. "Dear Richard,
Years & years have elapsed and you of all your family now
living at home have been silent to each other I cant nor wont
go into explanation You hear of Dear Mothers Death I sent you
a paper, whos loss I never can overcome even to my feelings,
I also sent you or some one did of my marriage I am comfortable
in a good home with the care of two Children Girls Mr O Brien is
62 a fine respectable looking Man has a good business, Father
lives with Wm ten minutes Walk from here he is wonderfully stout
his memory failing his health good Ellen grew up well and is a
clever / ? / and excellent dressmaker She gets enough to keep
her and father comfortable I Seldom hear from Tennessee no mails
are allowed to pass for some months this Civil War has brought
us dreadful times / ? / all business Banks & / ? ?/ are gone
down in this State within one Month; Tom or Jerome I know nothing
of They live 100 Miles from here Toms wife and child live here
She is a very nice young woman, Wm has been dangerously ill for
all Feyb March and April he is not out of danger with a low fever