e svanaan d beiked annad 19.
audienoe, who have not the power to approve however they may resent such an
outrage on their profession and prinoiples. Curiosity prompted me to hear him
onee from his pulpit, but I know not which feeling was most prominent - re-
sentment at the insult offered my friends and neighbours of the Established
Church in imposing such an animal on them, or indignation at the law that com-
pels us dissentersto oontribute nearly to the entire support, and a degree of
sorrov at the pantomimie and farojal exhibition before me. Margaret and the
Curato took tea with us and you would have enjoyed the soene between Sibby and
his little reverence. She argued with him on various literary subjeots and
teased and laughed t him, but the objeot was too insignifioant to triumph over.
Thursday Night -. Iarose this morning tired, jaded and dispirited. The
soene that oceur d last night can never be obliterated from my memory. Would
for the sake of humanity and the honor of our Country it had never taken place.
The night was unusually dark, wet and dismal, and for this season of the year,
stormy. About two o'olock we wore awoke by a loud knocking at the street door,
Aunt instantly arose, looked out of a front window, when a female on horse-
back drenched by the rain and apparently shivering with the oold, called out
in a Munster accent "Oh Kitty dear, for the love of God, open the door and
give me shelter." Our dear Aunt's heart is ever open to the ory of the afflict-
ed and her door to the supplications of the distressed, and without knowing
the name of the petitioner, she did not hesitate a moment, flew down the
stairs, and received in her arms the onoe admired Honorable Kitty Fleming,
but now the unfortunate, nearly broken hearted and persecuted Widow O'Heall.
This was no time for explanation - our little household being raised from
their slumbers were all in requisition. The jaded horse was sent to the Inn
stables, and the tea kettle, that never failing panacea, was soon bubbling its
satisfaction over the blaze of a cheerful fire. Mrs. O'Heall after getting
change of warm olothing and oomfortable refreshment seemed for the moment to
forget the circumstanoes of cruelty and oppression, which caused her to be
turned from her house and humble settlement, the particulars of which were
partly told us, but Aunt entreated her to retire to rest and state the re-
mainder in the morning. Poor Sibby was much affeoted and lamented her crip-
pled state, which prevented her joining us in our office of hospitality and
humanity. The Flemings were said to be amongst the early Saxons Invadera of
this naturally lovely Island along with the famous warrior Strongbow. They
reaped a plentiful harvest of plunder from the poor natives, but in process
of time they with their donfederated brethren Piota. Anoient Britons etc..
became amalgeted with the people of the land and had adopted many of their
manners and oustoms, and probaly imbibed all the patriotie feelings, which
attach a man to the soil of his birth, and the dear reoollections of the
lakes, the rivers, or, if you will, of the very turf-bogs and the thousand
nameless "nothings" of their carly life. With the title of Baron of Slane
the Flemings inherited large possessions and lands and lived more in the
style of petty Monarcha than of subjeots amongst their devoted tenantry
and followegs. After the shameful breach of the Treaty of Limerick, Lord
Slane and such other Catholio Noblemen, who romained in the country, were
obliged to submit to degrading terms imposed on them by their unfeeling
--.-