LETTER TO AN EMIGRANT FROM LAURAGH 1768
141
LETTER TO AN EMIGRANT FROM AN OLD INN AT LAURAGH, 1768
G£7?z1/?D 7. LYNE
The National Library has recently acquired from the Historical Society of Madison County in the State of New York a photocopy' of an original letter which may be of interest to readers of this Journal. The letter has been in the Society’s archives for the past ten years or more. Unfortunately, its provenance is unknown. It is dated 27 June 1768 and the writer, Daniel Sullivan, describes himself as an innkeeper at Lauragh in the parish of Tuosist.'^ It is addressed to Humphrey Lyne,^ an emigrant from the Lauragh area. The address, written on the reverse side of the letter is, unfortunately, indecipherable,’ but it is probably safe to assume that Humphrey resided somewhere in the British colonies of North America - perhaps the area of the modern State of New York.*
From the letter we learn that Humphrey was Sullivan’s brother-in-law.’ He was a descendant of Dr Dermot Lyne, physician and landholder from Ardgroom in the neighbouring Bearehaven area of Co. Cork, who died around 1745, leaving substantial leasehold property to his descendants in the Lauragh area.* He was a near relation of the O’Sullivan family of Derreen, the chief of whom,
l.	Now National Library Ms 31813.
la. In a postscript to his letter he says ‘Dirrect [your reply] to ... M’' Daniell Suilivane innkeeper att Laraght [Lauragh] Thouste [Tuosist]’.
2.	In the address this name is written as ‘M' Humphry Lyon*. Throughout the letter, however, the surname in question is spelt Lyne. The Irish form of Humphrey, Amhlaoibh, is frequently found among O’Sullivans and O’Lynes of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.
3.	Information of Mr. Russell G. Hubbard, Librarian, Madison County Historical Society, who has examined the original.
4.	Against this it should be noted that ‘There were no permanently settled white residents of what is now Madison County as early as 1768; the first record of white settlers in this county was made in 1793* (Information of Mr. R. G. Hubbard). It is also worth noting that persons of native Catholic stock made up a relatively small proportion of emigrants from Ireland to America before 1776. In general, persons of this background regarded emigration to the Protestant-dominated American colonies as ‘less desirable than poverty and persecution in Ireland*. Accordingly, such emigration at this period represented rather a ‘trickle of foot-loose individuals* than the mass exodus which it later became. (K. A. Miller, Emigrants and Exiles: Ireland and the Irish exodus to North America (New York and Oxford 1985) 137-68. 5. Sullivan writes: ‘I have the Honor of being Maried to your Sister Nelly those 15 year[s] past . . .* and adds that they have issue, four sons and two daughters.
6. For information on Dr. Lyne see no. 8 (1975) 45-72 of this Journal. A genealogy in possession of the writer, compiled from family tradition in 1929, shows a Humphrey Lyne as one of four grandsons of Dr. Lyne. He is the only one of these for whom no descendants are shown. From internal evidence, however, we know that the Humphrey of our letter cannot have been the doctor’s grandson.
j
i i
j 1
1 i j
i
Lauragh Pub - the ‘inn’ from which Daniel Sullivan wrote his letter. The walls date probably from the 1750s, or earlier: the roof and windows from the 1860s. (Photograph by Mr Jacky Ward)